---
title: Element Lookup Issues
---

This article helps to resolve possible issues that may arise during element lookup, where the
desired element is either not found or has unexpected property values. Such issues can manifest
with several symptoms.

## No Element in Page Source

The desired element is shown as part of a parent element container, and is not individually
distinguishable in the page source tree. Sometimes the entire application view is shown as one
single element container.

### Ensure application accessibility

The XCUITest driver is based on Apple's XCTest framework, which uses the information provided by
the system accessibility framework to distinguish and interact with on-screen elements.
The same approach is used by various screen readers, VoiceOver, etc. This means that if the
application is missing accessibility indicators for certain elements, then they may not be visible.

You may start your journey into what Accessibility is and how to deal with it in your applications
from the official [Apple's accessibility guideline](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility).
Bear in mind that this tutorial only describes apps based on official Apple frameworks like UIKit
or SwiftUI. If you use a different framework to build the application's user interface, for example
[React Native](https://reactnative.dev/), then consider looking for framework-specific
accessibility guidelines.

It is also possible that the source tree displayed in the Xcode accessibility inspector differs from
the tree generated by XCTest. The best possible way to verify the page source generated by the
latter is to check the output of the [`debugDescription`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielement/1500909-debugdescription)
attribute of the corresponding `XCUIApplication` element. The XCUITest driver exposes this
functionality using the [`mobile: source`](../reference/execute-methods.md#mobile-source) execute
method with `format` set to `description`.

### Check if this is a hybrid application

Hybrid applications are applications that use [web views](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/web-views)
in order to represent their whole user interface or portions of it. The iOS web view engine only
allows for limited accessibility interactions via [ARIA](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA)
attributes, which may result in certain elements being absent.

One approach to handle this is to switch the driver context in order to get full native access to
the page DOM. Read [Automating Hybrid Apps](../guides/hybrid.md) for more details.

For app developers, setting [`aria-label`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-label)
and [`role`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles)
attributes allow exposing web elements to the accessibility tree, as [accessibilityLabel](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/objectivec/nsobject/1615181-accessibilitylabel)
in `WKWebView`. The primary purpose of these attributes is to make web elements accessible for
tools such as VoiceOver, but they also expose these elements to the XCUITest driver's `NATIVE_APP`
context. Consider adding these attributes to elements that you want to expose to the driver.

### Adjust the tree depth

Apple's XCTest represents the page source as hierarchical structure (a tree), where each UI element
has ancestor, descendant or sibling relationships to other elements. Complex applications with
deeply nested views may therefore result in tree structures of large depth. For performance reasons,
the XCUITest driver sets the maximum nesting level to `50`, which means that elements of depth `51`
or greater will not be visible at all.

The driver allows to increase this limit using the [`snapshotMaxDepth`](../reference/settings.md)
setting, but only to a maximum value of `62`. This is due to an Apple limitation, where XCTest
cannot return any elements located at depth `63` or greater. This limitation is linked to the
operation of `NSDictionary` and cannot be worked around.

The suggested approach for handling the depth limit of `62` is to refactor the code of the
actual application under test. For example, applications built using [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/)
are known to create deeply nested view hierarchies. There are several approaches that can help
mitigate this:

- Try to remove unnecessary nesting levels
- Use the Fabric renderer with [View Flattening](https://reactnative.dev/architecture/view-flattening)
- Use native stack navigator instead of stack navigator
- Reduce the amount of view tags/test IDs

Check [the corresponding issue](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/14825) for more details.

Deeply nested hierarchies might also be the reason for the element lookup slowness. Read the
[Diagnosing WebDriverAgent Slowness](./wda-slowness.md) article to troubleshoot such cases.

### Select the correct active application

Certain UI elements may appear as though they belong to the application under test, but are actually
part of a completely different application (oftentimes the iOS system itself - the springboard).
Application ownership of certain elements may even change in different iOS versions. Frequent
candidates for such behavior are:

- System alerts, such as camera or geolocation permission requests
- Quick access toolbars, such as Control Center
- Various RPC sheets, such as the Share To sheet

WebDriverAgent is designed in such a way that it only interacts with a single app hierarchy at a
time. This is considered the `active` application. The driver provides two approaches to change
the active app:

- The [`mobile: activateApp`](../reference/execute-methods.md#mobile-activateapp) execute method
  allows to explicitly change the currently active application
- The [`defaultActiveApplication`](../reference/settings.md) setting allows to set the preferred
  active application. This means that if WebDriverAgent detects multiple applications, it will
  attempt to automatically set the preferred application as active.

Check the main [Troubleshooting guide](./index.md) and/or
[Switching Between iOS Apps During a Test](https://appiumpro.com/editions/13-switching-between-ios-apps-during-a-test)
article for more details on how to make such elements available.

## Symptom #2

The desired element is shown in the page tree, but cannot be found if looked up from an automated test.

## Resolutions To Symptom #2

### Make sure there is no race condition

Sometimes the automation might too fast or too slow depending on in which state the UI is while the lookup is being
executed. If it is too fast then consider using lookup timers, e.g. repeat the `findElement` more than once until
either the element is found or the timeout occurs. All clients have convenience wrappers for such timers in form of
expected conditions.
If the automation is too slow, e.g. the desired element disappears faster than `findElement` could detect its presence
then make sure your script is optimized for the maximum performance, e.g. optimal/fast element locators are used,
the application itself and driver settings are [adjusted](./wda-slowness.md) to perform optimally, etc.
There might be situations where the automation framework is already optimized, although the desired element is
a short-living one, for example some notification popup that only appears for a second and then is immediately hidden.
For such "special" elements consider using approaches different from `findElement`, for example post-test video recording analysis (video FPS should usually be enough to catch all short-living elements), or introducing special
application debug settings to change the behavior for such elements and make them stay visible for longer time, or
using non-UI-related assertions, like logs analysis or direct API calls.

### Make sure the debug environment matches to the testing one

There are known cases where application interface/behavior might differ in simulators and real devices. It might even differ
if the screen size or device model/OS version/system setting differs. That is why always make sure your debug
environment, for example one where Appium Inspector is used,
is as close as possible to the environment where automated tests are being executed.


## Symptom #3

The desired element is shown in the page tree, but its property value is not as expected, for example, it
is shown as visible while one does not see it in the application interface or vice versa.

## Resolutions To Symptom #3

### XCUITest driver has minimum influence to attribute values

This is a simple and at the same time complicated topic. Since XCUITest driver is based on Apple's XCTest,
all attribute values are retrieved from the latter. Standard attributes provided by XCTest could be found in
[XCUIElementAttributes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielementattributes?language=objc)
protocol reference. The full list of attributes supported by XCUITest driver's WebElement
could be found in the [Element Attributes](../reference/element-attributes.md) document.
Most of the above attributes are simple compilations of standard attributes, for example, `elementType` is
translated to `type` by matching the corresponding
[enum](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielementtype?language=objc) value to a string representation, `name` is compiled from original element's identifier and label depending on what is
present first. The full list of mapping rules between standard and XCUITest attribute values could be found in
[WebDriverAgent sources](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/blob/master/WebDriverAgentLib/Categories/XCUIElement%2BFBWebDriverAttributes.m).
Although, some attributes there, like `visible` or `accessible` have no direct mapping in XCTest
and are retrieved directly from the accessibility framework ~~using dark magic~~.
This means the actual value of these attributes only depends on accessibility internals and is there
mostly due to ~~legacy~~ convenience purposes, as the original XCTest does not even expose them.
We'd love to deprecate and remove this legacy burden and only rely on officially supported attributes,
although historically many people rely on them, so we keep it, even though their values might
be not reliable and there is no good way to debug this behavior or somehow influence it.
The final recommendation there would be:
- If the value of an attribute that directly or indirectly relies on a public XCUIElement attribute
  is different from what you expect then run a vanilla XCTest with the same app and make sure
  it's not the same as you see in the XCUITest driver. If it is then the only place to complain
  would be the Apple support forum or a XCTest bug tracker. If you can confirm the issue lies in
  WebDriverAgent's mapping logic then feel free to raise an
  [issue](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/issues) to its maintainers.
- If the value of an attribute that is a "custom" XCUITest attribute, like `visible` or `accessible`,
  is different from what you expect then we, most likely, won't be able to help you. You may try
  to improve the corresponding WebDriverAgent sources, but keep in mind there are many automation
  tests around that rely on the current way these attributes are calculated, and we probably don't
  want to break them.

## Symptom #4

The desired element is shown in the page tree, but the content of its `value` property is cut off. For example, the actual size of the element's `value` attribute is above 512 bytes, while the size in the XML page source is always limited to 512 bytes.

## Resolutions To Symptom #4

Retrieve the element's `value` using the corresponding API ([Get Element Attribute](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver1/#get-element-attribute) / [Get Element Text](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver1/#dfn-get-element-text)) to get the full/uncut content. Please see [this issue](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver/issues/2552) and [this PR](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/pull/1007) for more details.

XCTest framework cuts off long element values in snapshots to achieve the best performance and to reduce the memory footprint. If an element was inspected via [debugDescription](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielement/1500909-debugdescription) in XCTest for UI (not Appium XCUITest driver), it prints the value partially while the [value](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielementattributes/value) attribute like `element.value` prints the entire value.
