---
title: Elements Lookup Troubleshooting
---

This article helps to resolve possible issues that may pop up while looking up for elements with XCUITest driver,
where the desired element is either not found or not visible in the page source at all.

Since there might be multiple reasons to why an element cannot be found the topic is divided into sections where
each section contains visible symptoms with the list of their possible resolutions.


## Symptom #1

The desired element is shown as part of a bigger container and is not distinguishable in the page source tree.
Sometimes the whole application view with all elements in it is visible as one single container.

## Resolutions To Symptom #1

### Make sure the application under test is accessible

The XCUITest driver is based on Apple's XCTest framework. And the latter uses the information provided by the system
accessibility framework to interact with on-screen elements, and to distinguish them. The same approach is used by
various screen readers, VoiceOver, etc. You may start your journey into what Accessibility is and how to deal
with it in your applications from the official
[Apple's accessibility guideline](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/accessibility).
Bear in mind, that this tutorial only describes apps based on official Apple frameworks, like UIKit or SwiftUI. If you
use a different framework to build the application's user interface, for example
[React Native](https://reactnative.dev/), then consider looking for framework-specific accessibility guidelines.
It is also possible that the source tree displayed in Xcode accessibility inspector differs from the tree geneerated
by XCTest. The best possible way to verify the page source generated by the latter is to check the output of the
[debugDescription](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielement/1500909-debugdescription) attribute
of the corresponding XCUIApplication element. XCUITest driver allows to perform a direct forwarding for this API by
using the [mobile: source](../reference/execute-methods.md#mobile-source) execute method with `format` set
to `description`.

### Check if this is a hybrid application

Hybrid applications are applications that use
[web views](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/web-views) in order to represent
their whole user interface or portions of it.
Web views is the technology that allows to seamlessly integrate web pages browsing experience
into native mobile applications. Applications might contain native views mixed with web views, or the whole
application UI might be just a single web view. And while the built-in web view engine allows limited accessibility
interactions via [ARIA](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA) attributes, consider
switching a driver context instead in order to get full native access to the page DOM.
Read [Automating Hybrid Apps](./hybrid.md) for more details there.

### Make sure the application accessibility tree is not too deep

Apple's XCTest represents the page source as hierarchical structure (a tree), where each UI element has ancestor and
descendant relationships to other elements. There are applications having complex UI structure with deeply nested
views. Such deep structures are known to create problems for XCTest as the latter is unable to work with tree elements
whose nesting level is deeper than `62`. This limitation has to do with how `NSDictionary` works and cannot be worked
around. The default maximum nesting level for the XCUITest driver is set to `50` and could be customized by the
[snapshotMaxDepth](../reference/settings.md) setting.
[React Native](https://reactnative.dev/) is known to create
such deep hierarchies and the only viable solution for now is to fix the application
under test by flattening nested views. Check the corresponding [issue](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/14825)
for more details.
Deeply nested hierarchies might also be the reason for the element lookup slowness. Read the [Diagnosing WebDriverAgent Slowness](./wda-slowness.md) article to troubleshoot the latter.

### Make sure a valid active application is selected in WebDriverAgent

Sometimes, even if visually it looks like UI elements belong to the same application, they are referenced by
absolutely different apps. Moreover, the operating system
may change elements ownership in different versions. In the UI inspector it looks like visually the element
is visible, but no "real" accessibility control relies on it. Most frequent candidates for such behavior are:
- System alerts, for example camera or geolocation permission requests
- Quick access toolbars, for example the one where Wi-Fi or Bluetooth state could be changed
- Various RPC sheets, for example the Share To collection

WebDriverAgent is designed the way it only interacts with a single app hierarchy at the particular
moment of time. Such application is called `active`.
It is possible to switch between applications in runtime using
[mobile: activateApp](../reference/execute-methods.md#mobile-activateapp) API or
to provide a hint for WebDriverAgent on which application to prefer if multiple apps are running
using the [defaultActiveApplication setting](../reference/settings.md).
Check the [Troubleshooting guide](./troubleshooting.md) and/or
[Switching Between iOS Apps During a Test](https://appiumpro.com/editions/13-switching-between-ios-apps-during-a-test)
article for more details on how to make such elements available.

## Symptom #2

The desired element is shown in the page tree, but cannot be found if looked up from an automated test.

## Resolutions To Symptom #2

### Make sure there is no race condition

Sometimes the automation might too fast or too slow depending on in which state the UI is while the lookup is being
executed. If it is too fast then consider using lookup timers, e.g. repeat the `findElement` more than once until
either the element is found or the timeout occurs. All clients have convenience wrappers for such timers in form of
expected conditions.
If the automation is too slow, e.g. the desired element disappears faster than `findElement` could detect its presence
then make sure your script is optimized for the maximum performance, e.g. optimal/fast element locators are used,
the application itself and driver settings are [adjusted](./wda-slowness.md) to perform optimally, etc.
There might be situations where the automation framework is already optimized, although the desired element is
a short-living one, for example some notification popup that only appears for a second and then is immediately hidden.
For such "special" elements consider using approaches different from `findElement`, for example post-test video recording analysis (video FPS should usually be enough to catch all short-living elements), or introducing special
application debug settings to change the behavior for such elements and make them stay visible for longer time, or
using non-UI-related assertions, like logs analysis or direct API calls.

### Make sure the debug environment matches to the testing one

There are known cases where application interface/behavior might differ in simulators and real devices. It might even differ
if the screen size or device model/OS version/system setting differs. That is why always make sure your debug
environment, for example one where Appium Inspector is used,
is as close as possible to the environment where automated tests are being executed.


## Symptom #3

The desired element is shown in the page tree, but its property value is not as expected, for example, it
is shown as visible while one does not see it in the application interface or vice versa.

## Resolutions To Symptom #3

### XCUITest driver has minimum influence to attribute values

This is a simple and at the same time complicated topic. Since XCUITest driver is based on Apple's XCTest,
all attribute values are retrieved from the latter. Standard attributes provided by XCTest could be found in
[XCUIElementAttributes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielementattributes?language=objc)
protocol reference. The full list of attributes supported by XCUITest driver's WebElement
could be found in the [Element Attributes](../reference/element-attributes.md) document.
Most of the above attributes are simple compilations of standard attributes, for example, `elementType` is
translated to `type` by matching the corresponding
[enum](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielementtype?language=objc) value to a string representation, `name` is compiled from original element's identifier and label depending on what is
present first. The full list of mapping rules between standard and XCUITest attribute values could be found in
[WebDriverAgent sources](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/blob/master/WebDriverAgentLib/Categories/XCUIElement%2BFBWebDriverAttributes.m).
Although, some attributes there, like `visible` or `accessible` have no direct mapping in XCTest
and are retrieved directly from the accessibility framework ~~using dark magic~~.
This means the actual value of these attributes only depends on accessibility internals and is there
mostly due to ~~legacy~~ convenience purposes, as the original XCTest does not even expose them.
We'd love to deprecate and remove this legacy burden and only rely on officially supported attributes,
although historically many people rely on them, so we keep it, even though their values might
be not reliable and there is no good way to debug this behavior or somehow influence it.
The final recommendation there would be:
- If the value of an attribute that directly or indirectly relies on a public XCUIElement attribute
  is different from what you expect then run a vanilla XCTest with the same app and make sure
  it's not the same as you see in the XCUITest driver. If it is then the only place to complain
  would be the Apple support forum or a XCTest bug tracker. If you can confirm the issue lies in
  WebDriverAgent's mapping logic then feel free to raise an
  [issue](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/issues) to its maintainers.
- If the value of an attribute that is a "custom" XCUITest attribute, like `visible` or `accessible`,
  is different from what you expect then we, most likely, won't be able to help you. You may try
  to improve the corresponding WebDriverAgent sources, but keep in mind there are many automation
  tests around that rely on the current way these attributes are calculated, and we probably don't
  want to break them.

## Symptom #4

The desired element is shown in the page tree, but its property value contains partial value. e.g. if the element's `value` attribute had 600 bytes words, the XML page tree includes only 512 bytes. Rest of them are cut off.

## Resolutions To Symptom #4

Get the element attribute after getting the element. For example, getting the element with `findElement` and getting the `value` from the element attribute. The individual attribute gets the element attribute by getting snapshot deeply to return the entire value. Please see [this issue](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver/issues/2552) and [this PR](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/pull/1007) about the details.

Apple's XCTest framework might include partial text for long wording for the default snapshot. When you inspect such an element, which has long text, with [debugDescription](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielement/1500909-debugdescription), it prints the value partially while the [value](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xctest/xcuielementattributes/value) attribute like `element.value` prints entire the value. It looks like Apple designs the XCTest framework so.
