---
title: Troubleshooting
---

## Known problems

- After many failures on real devices it could transition to a state where connections are no longer being accepted. To possibly remedy this issue reboot the device. Read https://github.com/facebook/WebDriverAgent/issues/507 for more details.
- iPhone/iPad real devices show overlay, which has `Automation Running Hold both volume buttons to stop` text, since iOS/iPadOS 15. This is a known limitation of XCTest framework. This limitation does not affect screenshooting APIs though (e.g. the overlay is not visible on taken screenshots).
- iPhone/iPad real devices [require passcode or touch id](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/15898#issuecomment-927340411) when they start a XCTest session since iOS/iPadOS 15. Disabling passcode/touch id in the device preference allows to workaround the behaviour above.
- OpenSSL v3 breaks secure communication with real devices. It can cause a [Failed to receive any data within the timeout](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/16399) error in [appium-ios-device](https://github.com/appium/appium-ios-device). Please read [this issue](https://github.com/appium/appium-ios-device/pull/88#discussion_r825315862) for more details.
    - Please make sure your environment has Open SSL v1 for NodeJS environment, or prepare an OpenSSL v3 build by patching `OPENSSL_TLS_SECURITY_LEVEL=1`. (e.g. [an article](https://www.feistyduck.com/library/openssl-cookbook/online/ch-openssl.html))
    - This configuration is only necessary for XCUITest driver v4.3.0 or lower.
* `shake` is implemented via AppleScript and works only on Simulator due to lack of support from Apple

## Weird state

**Note:** Running `WebDriverAgent` tests on a real device is particularly flakey. If things stop responding, the only recourse is, most often, to restart the device. Logs in the form of the following _may_ start to occur:

```shell
info JSONWP Proxy Proxying [POST /session] to [POST http://10.35.4.122:8100/session] with body: {"desiredCapabilities":{"ap..."
dbug WebDriverAgent Device: Jul 26 13:20:42 iamPhone XCTRunner[240] <Warning>: Listening on USB
dbug WebDriverAgent Device: Jul 26 13:21:42 iamPhone XCTRunner[240] <Warning>: Enqueue Failure: UI Testing Failure - Unable to update application state promptly. <unknown> 0 1
dbug WebDriverAgent Device: Jul 26 13:21:57 iamPhone XCTRunner[240] <Warning>: Enqueue Failure: UI Testing Failure - Failed to get screenshot within 15s <unknown> 0 1
dbug WebDriverAgent Device: Jul 26 13:22:57 iamPhone XCTRunner[240] <Warning>: Enqueue Failure: UI Testing Failure - App state of (null) is still unknown <unknown> 0 1
```

## Real device security settings

On some systems, especially CI ones, where tests are executed by a command line agents, macOS Accessibility restrictions make the `WebDriverAgent` system unable to retrieve the development keys from the system keychain. This is usually manifest
by `xcodebuild` returning an error code `65`. A workaround for this is to use a private key that is not stored on the system
keychain. See [this issue](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/6955) and [this Stack Exchange post](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/16550594/jenkins-xcode-build-works-codesign-fails).

To export the key, use

```
security create-keychain -p [keychain_password] MyKeychain.keychain
security import MyPrivateKey.p12 -t agg -k MyKeychain.keychain -P [p12_Password] -A
```

where `MyPrivateKey.p12` is the private development key exported from the system keychain.

The full path to the keychain can then be sent to the Appium system using the `keychainPath` desired capability,
and the password sent through the `keychainPassword` capability.


## Simulator Resetting

By default, this driver will create a new iOS simulator and run tests on it, deleting the simulator afterward.

If you specify a specific simulator using the `udid` capability, this driver will boot the specified simulator and shut it down afterwards.

If a udid is provided and the simulator is already running, this driver will leave it running after the test run.

In short, this driver tries to leave things as it found them.

You can use the `noReset` capability to adjust this behavior.
Setting `noReset` to `true` will leave the simulator running at the end of a test session.

## Files generated by test runs

Testing on iOS generates files that can sometimes get large. These include logs, temporary files, and derived data from Xcode runs. Generally the following locations are where they are found, should they need to be deleted:

```
$HOME/Library/Logs/CoreSimulator/*
$HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/*
```

## Configure keyboards

Appium configures keyboard preferences by default to make test running more stable. You can change some of them via settings API.

- Turn `Auto-Correction` in Keyboards off
- Turn `Predictive` in Keyboards off
- Mark keyboard tutorial as complete
- (Only for Simulator) Toggle software keyboard on

## Accessibility preferences fine-tuning

In some cases, enabling of the below preferences helps to make some view elements accessible. Appium does not modify these settings automatically, since they could affect the way your application under test performs. Please change them manually if needed.

- Turn `Spoken Content` in Settings > Accessibility on
- Turn `Speak Selection` in Settings > Accessibility on

## Wrong ccoordinate

Please make sure the zoom preferencec in accessibility is turned off. It could cause wrong element coordinate.
