---
title: Locator Strategies
---

The XCUITest driver supports several location strategies in the native context. The list below
describes each strategy along with usage recommendations. For additional recommendations, consider
checking the [How To Achieve The Best Lookup Performance](https://github.com/facebookarchive/WebDriverAgent/wiki/How-To-Achieve-The-Best-Lookup-Performance)
article.

## Class Name

|Name|Speed Ranking|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`className`|⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐|`XCUIElementTypeButton`|

This strategy is mapped to the element's `type` [attribute](element-attributes.md). The full list of
supported XCUIElement type names can be found in the [XCTest documentation on `XCUIElementType`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcuiautomation/xcuielement/elementtype).

!!! info "When to Use"

    Use this strategy when you want to count the number of elements of a specific type. It is not
    recommended to use this approach for single element searches, since it may return a different
    result as soon as at least one other element with the same `type` value is present. Only use
    this in individual element searches when you are certain that exactly one such element will
    always be expected.

## Name

|Name|Speed Ranking|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`name`|⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐|`my name`|

This strategy is mapped to the element's `name` [attribute](element-attributes.md).

!!! info "When to Use"

    Use this strategy for elements that can be identified using their `name` attribute value.
    
    Note that the value of this attribute is commonly rendered in the application GUI, which means
    it is likely to change depending on the application language.

## Id

|Name|Speed Ranking|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`id`|⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐|`my name`|

This strategy is an alias for the [`name` strategy](#name).

## Accessibility Id

|Name|Speed Ranking|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`accessibility id`|⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐|`my name`|

This strategy is an alias for the [`name` strategy](#name).

## Predicate String

|<div style="width:12em">Name</div>|Speed Ranking|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`-ios predicate string`|⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐|`(name == 'done' OR value == 'done') AND type IN {'XCUIElementTypeButton', 'XCUIElementTypeKey'}`|

This strategy is mapped to the native XCTest predicate locator. Check the [Predicate Locator Strategy guide](./ios-predicate.md)
for more details on how to build effective predicate expressions. All supported element [attributes](element-attributes.md)
can be used in these expressions.

!!! info "When to Use"

    Use this strategy for elements that can be identified only using one or more of their own
    attributes - that is, without utilizing their parent, descendant, or sibling elements.

## Class Chain

|<div style="width:9em">Name</div>|Speed Ranking|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`-ios class chain`|⭐⭐⭐⭐|`**/XCUIElementTypeCell[$name == 'done' OR value == 'done'$]/XCUIElementTypeButton[-1]`|

This strategy is mapped to the native XCTest predicate locator, but with respect to the actual
element tree hierarchy. Such locators are basically a supertype of [predicate string](#predicate-string).
Read [Class Chain Queries Construction Rules](https://github.com/facebookarchive/WebDriverAgent/wiki/Class-Chain-Queries-Construction-Rules)
for more details on how to build such locators.

!!! info "When to Use"

    Use this strategy for elements that _cannot_ be identified only using their own attributes,
    but _can_ be identified upon additionally using their parent element(s) and/or their
    descendant element attribute(s).

## XPath

|Name|Speed Ranking|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`xpath`|⭐⭐|`//XCUIElementTypeButton[@value="Regular"]/parent::*`|

This strategy is not natively supported by XCTest, and relies on the XML tree generated by the
XCUITest driver's page source API. As a result, such locators can be much slower compared to all
other ones - sometimes up to 10x slower.

Only XPath 1.0 is supported.

!!! info "When to Use"

    Use this strategy for elements that can _only_ be identified when using their siblings and/or
    specific descendants. It is _strongly_ recommended to use more performant strategies if possible.
