---
title: Settings
---

The XCUITest driver exposes various settings through Appium's [Settings API](https://appium.io/docs/en/latest/guides/settings/).

## elementResponseAttributes

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| string | `type,label` |

Element attribute names to be included into the `findElement` response, as a comma-separated
list. The following values are supported: `type`, `name`, `label`, `text`, `rect`, `enabled`,
`displayed`, `selected`, `attribute/<attribute_name>`.

This setting only has an effect if the [`shouldUseCompactResponses`](#shouldusecompactresponses)
setting is set to `false`.

## shouldUseCompactResponses

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `true` |

Setting this to `false` will cause the `findElement` response to include the attributes specified
by the [`elementResponseAttributes`](#elementresponseattributes) setting.

## screenshotQuality

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `int` | `3` |

The quality of display screenshots. This value affects the screenshoting speed and the actual
quality of resulting screenshots.

The supported values are:

- `0` - lossless PNG
- `1` - high-quality JPEG
- `2` - low-quality JPEG
- `3` - lossless HEIC (fallbacks to PNG if hardware HEIC encoding is not supported)

This property can also be set using the [`appium:screenshotQuality`](./capabilities.md) capability.

## mjpegServerFramerate

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `int` | `10` |

The maximum number of screenshots per second taken by the MJPEG screenshots broadcaster. Must be in
the range `1..60`. See the [MJPEG guide](../guides/mjpeg.md) for more details.

## mjpegScalingFactor

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `float` | `100` |

The scaling factor of screenshots generated by the MJPEG screenshots broadcaster, as a percentage.
Must be in the range `1..100`. See the [MJPEG guide](../guides/mjpeg.md) for more details.

## mjpegServerScreenshotQuality

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `int` | `25` |

The JPEG compression factor applied to the screenshots generated by the MJPEG screenshots
broadcaster, as a percentage. Must be in range `1..100`. See the [MJPEG guide](../guides/mjpeg.md)
for more details.

## mjpegFixOrientation

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `true` |

Whether to automatically normalize the orientation of MJPEG frames so that they match the current
device orientation. Affects only the MJPEG screenshots broadcaster and does not change regular
screenshot responses. See the [MJPEG guide](../guides/mjpeg.md) for more details.

## waitForIdleTimeout

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `float` | `10` |

The amount of time in seconds to wait until the application under test is idling. XCTest requires
the app's main thread to be idling in order to execute any action on it, so WebDriverAgent might
not even start/freeze if the app under test is constantly hogging the main thread.

Setting this value to `0` disables idling checks completely (not recommended).

This property can also be set using the [`appium:waitForIdleTimeout`](./capabilities.md) capability.

## animationCoolOffTimeout

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `float` | `2` |

The amount of time in seconds to wait until the application under test does not have any active
animations. This check is usually applied after each automation action that is supposed to change
the state of the application under test (e.g. `click`), and blocks XCTest until the transition of
the tested application to a new state completes, or the cool off timeout occurs.

Setting this value to `0` disables animation checks completely.

## snapshotMaxDepth

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `int` | `50` |

The maximum retrieved depth of the application source tree. Lower values can help speed up source
retrieval and prevent out of memory or timeout errors. Must be in range `1..62` (higher values are not
supported by XCTest).

Consider reducing this value in case of errors like _Timed out snapshotting com.apple.testmanagerd..._
or _Cannot get 'xml' source of the current application_ in your Appium log.

## snapshotMaxChildren

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `int` | `INT_MAX` (effectively unlimited) |

The maximum retrieved number of children for each element of the application source tree. Lower
values can help speed up source retrieval and prevent out of memory or timeout errors.

## useFirstMatch

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Enabling this setting can speed up lookup of single element, though nested element lookups may be
subject to a [known issue](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/10101).

## reduceMotion

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Changes the system-wide "Reduce Motion" option (_Settings -> Accessibility -> Motion_).

## defaultActiveApplication

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `auto` |

The suggested active application. This is used by WebDriverAgent to automatically select the
currently active application if multiple such applications are found. The setting is particularly
useful for automating split-screen apps, but also applies when dealing with native system alerts
or overlays (see [Element Lookup Troubleshooting](../troubleshooting/element-lookup.md#select-the-correct-active-application)).

## activeAppDetectionPoint

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `MIN(w, h) * 0.2, MIN(w, h) * 0.2` |

The coordinates of a point on the device screen, used by WebDriverAgent to detect the currently
active application, if multiple active applications are identified. The format of this value is
a comma-separated list of the exact `x` and `y` coordinates (as integers or floats). By default,
it is set to 20% of the screen width and height.

Setting this value to a point outside of the physical device screen may cause undefined behavior.

## includeNonModalElements

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to include non-modal dialogs in the page source on iOS 13.0 to 13.2 (Xcode 11.0 to 11.2).
It fixes [a known issue](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/13227), but it might make
visibility attributes unreliable. You could also enable `shouldUseTestManagerForVisibilityDetection`
setting (defaults to `false`) or [`appium:simpleIsVisibleCheck`](./capabilities.md) capability to
improve the visibility detection.

Newer iOS/Xcode versions do not have this issue, and Appium/WebDriverAgent returns all elements
without this setting.

## acceptAlertButtonSelector

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | Not specified |

Custom selector for an alert button. This can be used to handle accept buttons with arbitrary text
when using the [Accept Alert](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/#accept-alert) API.

The selector should be a valid [class chain](https://github.com/facebookarchive/WebDriverAgent/wiki/Class-Chain-Queries-Construction-Rules)
expression, where the search root is the alert element itself, for example, ```**/XCUIElementTypeButton[`label CONTAINS[c] 'accept'`]```.
If the provided selector is wrong or does not match any element, the default button location
algorithm is used.

## dismissAlertButtonSelector

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | Not specified |

Custom selector for an alert button. This can be used to handle dismiss buttons with arbitrary text
when using the [Dismiss Alert](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/#dismiss-alert) API.

The selector should be a valid [class chain](https://github.com/facebookarchive/WebDriverAgent/wiki/Class-Chain-Queries-Construction-Rules)
expression, where the search root is the alert element itself, for example, ```**/XCUIElementTypeButton[`label CONTAINS[c] 'dismiss'`]```.
If the provided selector is wrong or does not match any element, the default button location
algorithm is used.

## screenshotOrientation

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `auto` |

Overriden value for the screenshot orientation. Appium tries to return a screenshot and adjust its
orientation properly using internal heuristics, but sometimes it does not work, especially in
landscape mode. The actual screenshot orientation depends on various factors such as OS versions,
model versions and whether this is a real or simulator device. 

The supported values are `auto`, `portrait`, `portraitUpsideDown`, `landscapeRight`, and 
`landscapeLeft`.

## boundElementsByIndex

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to look up elements using [`allElementsBoundByIndex`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcuiautomation/xcuielementquery/allelementsboundbyindex),
as opposed to the default approach using [`allElementsBoundByAccessibilityElement`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcuiautomation/xcuielementquery/allelementsboundbyaccessibilityelement).
[This Stack Overflow topic](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49307513/meaning-of-allelementsboundbyaccessibilityelement)
explains the difference.

## keyboardAutocorrection

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Changes the system-wide "Auto-Correction" option (_Settings -> General -> Keyboard_).

## keyboardPrediction

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Changes the system-wide "Predictive Text" option (_Settings -> General -> Keyboard_).

## nativeWebTap

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to use native, non-JavaScript-based tap functionality in webview context. Warning: sometimes
the preciseness of native taps could be broken, because there is no reliable way to map web element
coordinates to native ones.

This property can also be set using the [`appium:nativeWebTap`](./capabilities.md) capability.

## nativeWebTapStrict

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to skip additional logic that tries to match webview elements to native ones by using
their textual descriptions. Depending on the actual webview content, this algorithm might
sometimes be not very reliable, and may slow down each click, since a failure would cause the
driver to fallback to the default coordinates transformation flow.

It is advised to use this setting with the [`mobile: calibrateWebToRealCoordinatesTranslation`](./execute-methods.md)
execute method.

This setting only has an effect if the [`nativeWebTap`](#nativewebtap) setting is set to `true`.

This property can also be set using the [`appium:nativeWebTapStrict`](./capabilities.md) capability.

## nativeWebTapTabBarVisibility

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `detect` |

The visibility state of the browser tab bar. Setting this value may speed up tap actions in webview
context. Supported values are `detect`, `visible`, and `invisible`.

This setting only has an effect if the [`nativeWebTap`](#nativewebtap) and [`nativeWebTapStrict`](#nativewebtapstrict)
settings are both set to `true`.

## nativeWebTapSmartAppBannerVisibility

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `detect` |

The visibility state of the smart app banner. Setting this value may speed up tap actions in webview
context. Supported values are `detect`, `visible`, and `invisible`.

This setting only has an effect if the [`nativeWebTap`](#nativewebtap) and [`nativeWebTapStrict`](#nativewebtapstrict)
settings are both set to `true`.

## safariTabBarPosition

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `bottom` for iPhones on iOS 15+, otherwise `top` |

The tab bar position in Safari. Supported values are `bottom` and `top`.

This setting only has an effect if the [`nativeWebTap`](#nativewebtap) setting is set to `true`.

## useJSONSource

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to retrieve the application source from WebDriverAgent in JSON format, and transform it to
XML on the Appium server side, as opposed to retrieving the source from WebDriverAgent directly in
XML format.

This property can also be set using the [`appium:useJSONSource`](./capabilities.md) capability.

## pageSourceExcludedAttributes

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `""` |

One or more comma-separated [attribute names](./element-attributes.md) to be excluded from the
application source. Excluding certain expensive attributes (e.g. `visible`) may speed up page
source retrieval.

If used in combination with [`useJSONSource`](#usejsonsource), only `frame`, `enabled`, `visible`,
`accessible` and `focused` attributes are supported.

## maxTypingFrequency

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `int` | `60` |

Maximum frequency of keystrokes per minute, used for for typing and clearing text fields. Setting a
smaller value may help if your tests are failing due to typing errors.

## respectSystemAlerts

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to automatically switch the active application to the system springboard if a native alert
element is detected. Decreases the performance of the active app detection.

Currently the driver sets the app under test as active if XCTest identifies it as running in
foreground. The presence of a native alert element does not change the value returned by XCTest,
which results in the driver being blocked from interacting with the app. Changing this setting can
avoid such issues.

## webScreenshotMode

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | `native` |

The screenshoting logic in web context. The following values are supported:

- `native` - screenshots are taken using WDA and capture the full device screen (including status
  bars)
- `page` - screenshots try to include the entire active web page
- `viewport` - screenshots only include the visible viewport

## useClearTextShortcut

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `true` |

Whether to use the IOHIDEvent operation for clearing text fields. Disabling this setting may be
useful for simulators in headless mode, as the simulator keyboard may otherwise no longer appear
(see [this issue](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/20727) for more details).

## limitXPathContextScope

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `true` |

Whether to limit the page source to the parent element when using scoped element searches.

This ensures that a chained query like `findElement(By.xpath, "//XCUIElementTypeAlert").findElement(By.xpath, "//XCUIElementTypeButton")`
correctly applies the parent scoped context, however, a query like `findElement(By.xpath, "//XCUIElementTypeButton").findElement(By.xpath, "./..")`
will fail, because the first half of it will only return descendants of the target element.

Disabling this setting would cause the latter query to no longer fail, but it will also cause the
former query to ignore the parent scoped context. You can use the `.` notation to adjust the scope
of the former query like so: `findElement(By.xpath, "//XCUIElementTypeAlert").findElement(By.xpath, ".//XCUIElementTypeButton")`

## skipDocumentsContainerCheck

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to treat `documents` container type during file management operations (pushing/pulling
to/from real devices) the same as other container types. For certain applications, having this
setting enabled helps to workaround documents upload issues if the `UIFileSharingEnabled` flag is
not active in the application manifest.

## autoClickAlertSelector

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `string` | Not specified |

Custom selector for an alert button. This can be used to automatically locate an element inside an
alert hierarchy, and tap it as soon as a new alert is detected.

The selector should be a valid [class chain](https://github.com/facebookarchive/WebDriverAgent/wiki/Class-Chain-Queries-Construction-Rules)
expression, where the search root is the alert element itself, for example, ```**/XCUIElementTypeButton[`label CONTAINS[c] 'click'`]```.
If two or more elements match the provided selector, then the very first matched element is tapped
on. If the provided selector does not match any element, no action is performed. An error is thrown
if the provided selector is invalid. 

This setting takes priority over the [`appium:autoAcceptAlerts`](./capabilities.md) and
`appium:autoDismissAlerts` capabilities, i.e. if both are enabled, the destination element to tap on
would be selected based on the `autoClickAlertSelector` selector value.

## includeHittableInPageSource

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether the [`hittable`](./element-attributes.md#hittable) attribute should be included in the page
source XML tree.

## includeMinMaxValueInPageSource

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether the [`minValue`](./element-attributes.md#minvalue) and [`maxValue`](./element-attributes.md#maxvalue)
attributes should be included in the page source XML tree.

## enforceCustomSnapshots

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether to instruct WebDriverAgent to always use use a customized snapshotting mechanism using
private XCTest APIs, as opposed to the
[standard `snapshotWithError`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcuiautomation/xcuielementsnapshotproviding/snapshot())
approach.

By default, WebDriverAgent only uses the custom approach for some particular cases where standard
snapshots may provide unreliable or distorted results, but this may not cover all cases, for
example, [with custom keyboards](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/issues/1085). Setting
this value may help with handling such edge cases, though it may also result in snapshots being
slower and less memory efficient.

## includeCustomActionsInPageSource

| Type | Default |
| -- | -- |
| `boolean` | `false` |

Whether the [`customActions`](./element-attributes.md#customactions) attribute should be included
in the page source XML tree.
